In year 9 I had a truly terrible maths teacher. Now being dyslexic and having dysgraphia too maths was never my favourite class. However, I was on a specialled program since year 3, and I gotten by. I have to admit that when on occasion a maths theory did ‘click’ with me I felt amazing and like my learning difficulties would not always hold me back. I was in the specially needs class. A class that was meant for students who took longer to learn. So, in high school generally they had the maths teachers who could teach the content slower. (what other students would learn in 2 lesions we would have about a week and a half on).

Anyway by 14 I knew my way around working out a high school teacher. Next to my name on the role was a green +, this meant this student (as it was put to me) ‘just needs a little extra help’ and this is true, most of the time I could keep up, but sometimes it got hard. Most of the good teachers would read my file after they saw this + and would ask for a meeting with me to talk about what I needed from them. And well the bad would not check what that + meant and would be so surprised when I did poorly on a test. And be even more surprised when my parents told them I was dyslexic. This then led me to always no matter the class or the teacher go up to them at the end of class and have a word with them to make sure they knew I was not ‘normal’.

Now this teacher I mentioned before… the best way to describe her was crow like. When she would aggressively flit around the room with her arms behind her back, she would arch her neck so far forward I was convinced her head would go rolling off her very gaunt frame. She always wore these black kittens heeled shoes that would make a harsh scratchy noise against the carpet as she would stalk over to return particularly bad homework. On the very first day of class she told us that “normally I teach real maths” I would later learn that this meant the specialist classes. She would go to mention this to the class for the rest of the time she taught at least once a lesson.

Anyone who knows me knows that I respect teachers. I got put into class with a lot of students who at this age had no interest in learning at school. So, I would always try to give a teacher the benefit of the doubt. As I knew our group could be difficult to teach. After our first-class witch had been exhausting for me as she went to fast, I felt like I could not blink without missing anything. I went up to this teacher and I told her I was dyslexic, and this meant I would need extra time on tests, that sometimes I draw on the side of my book to  listen if she was talking and a few other things. “yes, I was told about you, don’t worry next class we will be re arranging the class to be more helpful to just you.” I left the class very confused but assumed she meant her teaching style or something of that variety.

The next maths class I walked in to find all the desks separated into single desks with a large drive down the room and was told that the ‘special girls’ needed to sit on the left and the ‘smarter girls’ would be  sitting on the right. You can guess witch group I was put into. I told my present about this when I got home that day. They complained to the school. The next day the teacher  said we still had to sit in our ‘special sides’ but we could sit with 2 other friends from those groups. I made an excuse and left class and then school that day because I was so upset that it seemed like nothing had changed.

A few weeks after this incident we had a first test. I was dreading it. I never do well on a test, I would study, do all my homework but no matter what I did I never did very well. So, I walk into our classroom and picked a desk at the back of the room. With a window behind me. A friend of mine who I was not allowed to sit with smiled at me across the room and somehow that keeped the anxiety at bay… until this teacher put a bright pink test paper down in front of me with pale pink writing and she warbled out to me “I read this is good for people who are not as bright as some others” Now let me just tell you 1. colour can be a huge help to some people with dyslexia but not like this. 2. She printed this test like this for at least 3 other girls who had trouble with maths, but they were not in the class for learning difficulties. And 3. She had asked me in the past if colour helped, I had told her a flat no not for me. I did not want to cause drama, so I put my head down and did the most stressful, challenging and anxiety educing test of my life.

Now at the time after the test I was so angary about how a teacher could give me this test. I was shocked that someone would assume that they knew best for me. I was appalled that a teacher would think this would help. I could see that maybe some part of her was trying. Because she was, she clearly thought this would do something. But I was so disheartened from this that someone would just not listen to what I had to say about my disability that I very openly talked about.

I went home that day, told my parents and they complained to the school again about this teacher. I heard that there was a meeting about it. I never saw the teacher again, honestly, I don’t even remember getting the test back and if it did I could not for the life of me tell you what I got and to this day I hate algebra… but that might be for more reasons than just a truly terrible teacher.